Welcome back you may have noticed something while talking about they go scaleable means we worry about
large inputs.
What does the end of the graph look like.
So if our function is only worried about really small inputs or we know that our inputs are only going
to be let's say an array of five items big-O won't matter as much does it.
Because over here if the elements are small all these lines are kind of bunched up together they're
all the same.
But is that real life.
No because as humans we tend to think in here and now we tend to think that oh our Web sites are only
going to have 100 users.
That's it.
But what if that user base grows What if our inputs grow.
We never know when we write code we want to write code that can scale so that we don't have to constantly
go back and fix things or when things get out of hand.
The code breaks and that's why big-O is so important to write scalable code means thinking outside of
just the small little section over here.
It means thinking long term thinking big about your code and what could happen in the future.
Now you're thinking to yourself right now.
Hey Andre I feel like I just learned a whole bunch of theory and no practical information.
Andre I want to know exactly how I can use this in my day to day life as a coder.
I'm I'm kind of getting bored here.
What with this newfound knowledge you're going to look at code differently.
Right.
Let's have a look.
You see now when we look at methods that we get in a language such as methods in an array.
When it comes to javascript we have things like push pop shift on shift.
You see all these methods which are functions have a cost associated with them.
A big low cost for example when it comes to arrays.
When we search for an item over me access the first item an array for example it's all of one.
But when we use something like.
On shift.
Well it actually turns out to be oh then and why that is.
We're going to get into when we talk about the data structure array in the data structure section but
you're going to start to see for the rest of this course how we use big-O to measure why one data structure
might be better than others.
Why should we use an array instead of let's say an object maybe object has better functions that we
need for hard data.
This graph that we've talked about up until now is actually part of big-O Chichi dotcom and free scroll
down here you'll see that each data structure that is an array.
And in this case objects on this table is a hash table.
Again something that we're going to cover in the data structure section but we see that we have different
Big-O notation for different data structure and some data structures have really good search big-O some
have insertions some have deletion.
And you can see here that there's different pros and cons to each of these data structures.
As you'll find out in this course data structures are simply ways to store data and algorithms are simply
functions or ways to use data structures to write our programs.
Remember our instructions for machines for our computers and great programmers have this knowledge where
they pick the right data structure the right algorithms to write good programs.
Remember our two rules of good code readable and scalable and what we've learned is the foundation for
us to make a decision of which data structure is going to be best when we get into the data structure
section because we're going to know oh array's allows us to access at all in one constant time.
But when it comes to searching through an array it's going to give us linear time versus perhaps maybe
an object.
So behind the scenes even though this section may be a little bit theoretical and boring.
What we've just learned is going to lay the foundation for the rest of the course for us to be able
to write good code for the rest of the sections.
We're going to use big-O to see what is a good solution to a problem and what is a bad solution to a
problem in most interviews have this core concept.
What's the right data structure.
What's the right algorithm to write good programs.
Google hires engineers and developers that know this because they have a lot of scale that they have
to think about.
A lot of inputs and people that know how to handle these programs are the ones that are going to be
able to build great programs.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bebai.